---
title: 'Quantum Autumn School 2024'
date: 2024-12-19
permalink: /_posts/2024-12-19_QAS2024/
published: true
layout: single
tags:
  - neic
  - qas
---
{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/qas2024/DSC05929.JPG" alt="QAS 2024 Group photo" caption="QAS 2024 Group photo" %}
Once again, NordIQuEst teamed up with the National Competence Center Sweden (ENCCS) to deliver to the participants a high-level training event on the possibilities that quantum computing offers.
 
[The Quantum Autumn School 2024 (QAS24)](https://enccs.se/events/quantum-autumn-school-2024/) was held on December 2nd-4th in Stockholm, Sweden, with participants both on premise and online.
 
The second edition of this event saw the participation of many national and international actors, such as the National Competence Centers of Denmark, Finland, and Iceland. Industry representatives, such as SEB, Handelsbanken, and Jeppesen were also invited to participate and provide insight on their work related to quantum computing.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/qas2024/DSC05940.JPG" alt="" caption="" %}
 
Moreover, a week before the QAS24, a beginner’s course on quantum computing was also organized with the help of IQM Quantum Computers. This event gave the students the possibility to refresh their knowledge on the topic and get ready for QAS24.
 
At QAS24, the participants had the possibility to fully experiment with the NordIQuEst infrastructure. From the auditorium in Stockholm or anywhere in Europe, they were given access to the VTT Quantum Computer Helmi, located in Espoo, Finland, through the EuroHPC JU supercomputer LUMI hosted by CSC in Kajaani, Finland. Each learning session had materials ready to guide the participants to submit jobs on the quantum computer and experiment with the algorithms provided by the trainers.
 
The school itself covered a wide range of topics, from QAOA to error correction, from quantum finance to quantum chemistry and flight scheduling optimization and much more. There was also the possibility to dive deeper into other quantum related topics such as quantum communication and cryptography while also getting an overview on some of the current quantum technologies that are under development.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/qas2024/DSC05994.JPG" alt="" caption="" %}

 
You can find the materials of the event, freely available here: [https://enccs.github.io/qas2024/](https://enccs.github.io/qas2024/)
Moreover, the recording of the event can be found here: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8or26PHrKcI&list=PL2GgjY1xUzfAmbAAL5DaUYsz8vThwp1dC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8or26PHrKcI&list=PL2GgjY1xUzfAmbAAL5DaUYsz8vThwp1dC)
 
Once again, we thank all the participants, instructors, and collaborators for helping us deliver an excellent experience for everyone involved!

Pictures: Apostolos Vasileiadis 

